# INTRO

## Setting up Expectations

- Testing fundalmentals and Testing Frameworks
- Diferent kinds of testing
- Tradeoffs of testing React/Front-end
- Writing unit and integration tests between components
- If you dont ask questions along the way this gonna be a monologue. We don't want that.

## Routine

- Demos
- Exercises
- Q&A
- Help others

## Clone the repo

http://bit.ly/kt-testing

## What is the goal of this talk?

Its not me trying to teach you the "Correct" way of testing. This talk is about developing your critical sense for you to be able to find the optimal way to write tests that give you confidence about the intention of your code but also doesn't slow you down in the future. And by "you" I mean your future self, your coworkers and the whole organization that you are part of.

## Is this trip really necessary? Do we really need testing? What problem test solves?

BUGS! BUGS! 🐛

But what is a bug? Generally speaking, is a problem in a system. A undisered behavior, something unexpected, an exception.

What kind of bugs there is out there?

- Memory Leaks
- Logic errors
- a11y
- regression
- undefined is not a function
- intl
- security

## What we can do?

- Static Types: Typescript, ReasonMl/Rescript
- Linting: Eslint
- Testing?????

## What kind of tests exist out there?

- Unit Testing
- a11y
- integration testing
- e2e testing
- regression testing
- smoke testing

## What kind test should you use?

Testing is code, and if is code and therefore you have to maintain through time.

Tradeoffs, Tradeoffs, Tradeoffs. Everything depends on the context.

A common approach is to to user behavioral testing on user journeys using something link cypress and intentinally avoid testing framework specific stuff. If your for your user it shouldn't if you're using react, angualar or vue.

And for shared services, cross-cutting stuff, tooling etc you go full unit testing.

## Enough teory, lets code some tests.

In other for us to make good choices we first need to understand the basic fundamentals.
